https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/tags/patient-payments-0
.
Skip to main content.
Search form.
Search.
athenaInsight.
Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability.
Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network.
Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments.
Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives.
More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe.
Patient Payments.
Patient debt varies by specialty and location Patient payments — and patient debt — fall disproportionately on certain specialties..
5 leadership attributes of high performers Healthcare practices that succeed, clinically and financially, share these key traits.
Why physicians are struggling to get paid Here's how patient payments are impacting providers — and how some organizations are handling it.
3-minute case study: How to ask patients to pay One high performer earns patients' trust while collecting their obligations Performance Insight.
Ah, spring: The season of patient payments Why patient obligations are highest this time of year — and what to do about it Data Insight.
Out-of-pocket patient costs are rising Some specialties have seen a 13 percent increase over the past five years Data Insight.
As healthcare spending soars, what lies ahead? The US spends more on healthcare than any other country. How are government, payers, and patients adjusting? Opinion.
Interactive: How 3 variables impact financial performance See how incremental improvements can add up to tangible gains Performance Insight.
More patients visit the doctor this time of year. Here’s one reason why. Data shows that visit volume rises as out-of-pocket obligation drops Data Insight.
Show More.
more.
athenaInsight.
Follow Us.
Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight..
© Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved..
