https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/tags/opinion
.
Skip to main content.
Search form.
Search.
athenaInsight.
Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability.
Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network.
Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments.
Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives.
More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe.
Opinion.
"A shift away from physician-centric healthcare" Penn State College of Medicine​ dean Hillemeier​: "Educate doctors to be team players.".
“The kind of change physicians would embrace” Doctors don’t hate tech, argues Leon Leach, they just want it to work better.
Ask Len: Should we hire a unicorn? Harvard Business School professor Len Schlesinger answers your vexing management questions.
Ask Len: Should I worry about low-cost urgent care centers? Harvard Business School professor Len Schlesinger answers your vexing management questions..
4 predictions for healthcare in 2018 Healthcare execs plan to staff up in 2018 to manage risk and interpret data strategically.
The no-excuses way to manage healthcare growth HBS professor Len Schlesinger on expansion, variation, and a data-driven method of improvement.
Episode 5: The harsh truth about payment reform Healthcare exec Paul Levy is not optimistic about value-based care. To put it mildly..
Big data, sure, but 'relationships still matter' The promise — and pitfalls — of big data in healthcare.
The rise (and rise) of the healthcare administrator Healthcare bureaucracy has exploded since 1970. Here's what that means for the industry.
Show More.
more.
athenaInsight.
Follow Us.
Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight..
© Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved..
