https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/tags/burnout
.
Skip to main content.
Search form.
Search.
athenaInsight.
Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability.
Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network.
Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments.
Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives.
More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe.
Burnout.
Infographic: Gender disparities among physicians Data on the healthcare gender divide: Salaries earned, hours worked, burnout rates and more.
“The kind of change physicians would embrace” Doctors don’t hate tech, argues Leon Leach, they just want it to work better.
Expert forum: Making work better for female doctors Data shows young female physicians are struggling. Our panel of women doctors explains why..
Fearing burnout, millennial doctors push back They want a new approach to the workplace. Research suggests a way forward..
Lightening the load on RNs PeaceHealth is redesigning care delivery to ease the burden on its registered nurses.
The business case for physician capability When doctors have the resources they need to care for patients, business thrives.
Physician burnout is real. Here's how to fix it It's time for healthcare leaders to fix the workflows that fuel physician burnout.
Giving physicians what they need to thrive A new framework for success focuses on capability.
The way the system works against women doctors A physician looks at gender disparities in medicine — and why they could cause burnout.
Show More.
more.
athenaInsight.
Follow Us.
Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight..
© Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved..
