https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/privacy-policy
.
Skip to main content.
Search form.
Search.
athenaInsight.
Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability.
Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network.
Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments.
Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives.
More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe.
Privacy Policy.
TABLE OF CONTENTS I. SCOPE AND PURPOSE II. WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT? III. HOW DO WE USE YOUR INFORMATION? IV. SHARING YOUR INFORMATION V. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY VI. WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED TO KNOW? VII. KEY TERMS VIII. INTERNATIONAL USAGE IX. CONTACT THIS POLICY IS EFFECTIVE AS OF JUNE 2016 I. SCOPE AND PURPOSE: This privacy policy (“the Policy”) describes the practices of athenahealth, Inc. (“we,” “us,” or “athenahealth”) with regard to information about you that we obtain, either directly or indirectly through your viewing of or interaction with athenaInsight, available at athenaInsight.com (“the Website”) and other websites to which this Policy is linked. This Policy does not apply to other athenahealth platforms (e.g., athenaCollector, athenaClinicals, athenaCommunicator, athenaCoordinator, etc.), to other athenahealth product offerings (e.g., athenaText), to the athenahealth Patient Portal, to other websites that we operate, to information that we obtain outside of the Website, or websites of third parties to which we provide links.  We do not control and are not responsible for the privacy practices of, or the data available on, the websites of third parties, and we urge you to evaluate the soundness of these practices for yourself. PLEASE REVIEW THIS PRIVACY POLICY CAREFULLY BEFORE ACCESSING AND USING THE WEBSITE.  When you submit information to or through the Website, you consent to the collection and processing of information as described in this Policy. If you have not done so already, please also review our Terms of Use (“Terms”) available here . IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THIS POLICY OR THE TERMS, THEN PLEASE DO NOT USE THIS WEBSITE. RETURN TO TOP II. WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT? Information you provide us: We may collect Personally Identifiable Information, as defined below, that you provide us on our Website.  For example, if you sign up for news updates from athenaInsight, we will ask you for your email address. Information we may automatically collect: We may collect general information about your online activity, such as your IP address and other data about the equipment used to visit the Website, the patterns of searching and browsing that preceded access to the Website, and the patterns of searching and browsing on the Website. When you visit our websites, some information is automatically collected and stored in log files. For example, when you visit our websites your computer’s operating system, Internet Protocol (IP) address, access times, browser type and language, and the website you visited before our site are logged automatically. We also collect information about your usage and activity on our Sites. We may combine this automatically collected log information with other information we collect about you. We do this to improve services we offer you, to improve marketing, analytics, or site functionality. For more information about this practice please refer to “How are ‘cookies’ and ‘web beacons’ used on our website?” In addition, when you use our mobile applications, we may automatically collect data about your device such as your device ID, type of device you use, operating system version and how you use our application including pages you view. The Website does not respond to web browsers’ Do Not Track signals. RETURN TO TOP III. HOW DO WE USE YOUR INFORMATION? We use information collected through Tracking Technologies , such as cookies and web beacons, to improve the functionality of the Website. For example: We track the number of visitors using certain portions or features of the Website to make changes that may be necessary to improve the Website’s functionality; We track the popularity of features on the Website; We assess the ways in which users become aware of or access the Website in order to gauge the quality and methods of our advertising. If you choose to provide athenahealth with your Personally Identifiable Information , we will use that Information only for those purposes explained to you at the time of collection or for our internal business purposes. For example, if you provide us with your email address, we may use it for our own marketing, promotional, and informational purposes, including solicitations, invitations, newsletters, awareness campaigns, and announcements. We will only share Personally Identifiable Information with third party vendors, consultants, agents, partners, and other service providers with whom we contract to help us provide our services. RETURN TO TOP IV. SHARING YOUR INFORMATION We engage certain service providers to host and maintain the Website and perform other related business operations, during which they may have access to your Information.  Such service providers are prohibited from using your Information for purposes other than as directed by us and are required to conform to this Policy or to agreements at least as stringent as this Policy. We engage certain service providers for purposes of tracking and associating internet search and browsing behavior with our advertisements and to provide functionality on the Website. We enable them to use Tracking Technologies , such as cookies and web beacons, on or in conjunction with the Website. These companies may use non-personally identifiable information about your visits to other websites, together with non-personally identifiable information about your purchases and interests from other online and offline sources, to provide ads about goods and services of interest to you. The use and collection of information by these service providers is governed by their respective privacy statements and thus is not covered by this Policy. In addition, we may share Website usage information with these service providers to manage and target ads and for market research purposes.  Finally, information obtained through these processes may be combined with Personally Identifiable Information in order to analyze our marketing efforts. In addition, we may aggregate the information we collect to share it with other organizations and individuals for the purpose of demonstrating the size, breadth, and nature of our audience.  When we share aggregate information, the recipient of such information is unable to identify you based on the information received. Please note that athenahealth may share your information in accordance with this Policy and in the following situations: You have given us your consent to share or use information about you; We believe that we need to share information about you to provide a service that you have requested from us or from others; We are required by law to disclose information; or We believe that it is necessary to protect our rights or to avoid liability or violations of the law. RETURN TO TOP V. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY.
The Effective Date of this Policy is set forth at the top of this Policy.  We reserve the right to make periodic updates and revisions to this Policy. Any changes will be posted on this page. Your continued use of the Website after the initial Effective Date constitutes your acceptance of the Policy.  Your continued use of the Website after a subsequent Effective Date constitutes your acceptance of the amended Policy.  An amended Policy supersedes all previous versions.   Please check this page to review whether any changes have been made to the Policy.  We will not, however, make retroactive changes that reduce your privacy rights unless you affirmatively agree to those changes. RETURN TO TOP VI. WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED TO KNOW? This Website is not intended for minors under the age of eighteen, and athenahealth does not wish to obtain any information from or about them through this website. If you are under eighteen years old, do not use this Website.  Our Website includes social media features, such as “sharing” functions on Facebook, Twitter, & LinkedIn. Your interactions with these features are governed by the privacy policies of the companies providing these features, and we do not control and are not responsible for the privacy practices of, or the data available on, the websites of third parties. RETURN TO TOP VII. KEY TERMS TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES : Tracking technologies include technologies such as “cookies” and “web beacons,” which are used to analyze trends, administer the Website, and help us provide you with a more personalized experience and improve our services.  Cookies are small amounts of text files that are sent from a website to your computer’s browser when you visit the site.  These cookies are then stored in files within your computer’s browser.  Websites can access only the cookies that they have stored on your computer.  For every future time you access a website, your browser sends the cookie back to the server, which notifies the website of the user’s previous activities on the website.  Thus, cookies serve several useful purposes, like letting you navigate between pages more efficiently, saving your preferences, and enhancing your user experience with the website.  Web beacons (also called transparent GIFs, web bugs, pixels, or action tags) are strings of code that deliver a tiny graphic image on a web page or in an email which is used to monitor the behavior of the user visiting the website or sending the email.  Web beacons can recognize certain types of information on your computer such as cookies, the time and date a page is viewed, and a description of the page on which the web beacon is placed. In general, any file served as part of a web page can act as a web beacon. INTERNET PROTOCOL (IP) ADDRESS : A numerical label separated by periods that identifies every device (e.g., computer, printer) that participates in a network. IP addresses allow these devices to communicate with one another and transmit relevant information. PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION : means information associated with or used to identify a specific person, such as your name, profession, email address, and state of residence. RETURN TO TOP VIII. INTERNATIONAL USAGE The Website is based in the United States and provided for access and use only by persons located in the United States.  If you are visiting the Website from outside the United States, your information may be transferred to, stored and processed in the United States.  The data privacy and protection and other laws of the United States may not be as comprehensive as those in your country.  By using the Website, you consent to the transfer of your information to our facilities in the United States. IX. CONTACT If you have any questions about this Policy, please contact us at: athenahealth, Inc, Attn: Chief Compliance Officer, 311 Arsenal Street, Watertown, MA 02472..
athenaInsight.
Follow Us.
Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight..
© Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved..
