https://insight.athenahealth.com/infographic-10-things-know-macra
.
Skip to main content.
Search form.
Search.
athenaInsight.
Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability.
Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network.
Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments.
Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives.
More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe.
Quality Payment Program Field Guide.
Infographic: Key takeaways from the Quality Payment Program's 2018 proposed rule.
Explore our full infographic series and learn how athenahealth helps organizations succeed with quality programs ..
Expand Comments.
Add a comment Add a comment Required fields are marked * Your email address will not be published..
August 11, 2016.
Great summary of how this is going to work Name: Dena Avallone Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
This infographic is well done and very informative; however, it is not printer-friendly and that is disappointing. Please re-post in a printer-friendly format.
Thank you.
Paulette Wayne, MSN, RN Name: Paulette Wayne, MSN, RN Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
Thanks for the introduction. “Each physician’s score will be reported.” What about data from advanced practice RNs? Nurse Practitioner? Midwife? CRNA? Name: Patricia Geraghty NP Email: test@test.com reply.
August 16, 2016.
Hi Patricia,
Yes, according to the proposed rule, data for all MIPS eligible providers will be posted on the Physician Compare website. Clinicians will be given a 30 day period to review their data before it is made public. Both the composite score as well as the range of performance scores within each MIPS category will be posted.
Liz Name: Liz Kellogg Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
When CMS admits that 87% of solo independent doctors will lose money, the influence of the AHA, IMA and corporate interests is blatantly clear. More motivation to leave Medicare behind, which is sad when so many people depend on it. Name: Brian Crownover MD Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
This is a great article and helps me understand the changes coming. Is it available in a power point or in a print version to share with others? Name: Sonya Griffith Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
I loved this presentation! Unfortunately, I had just finished reading a 3-page article in one of the journals; I couldn’t make heads or tails out of it! I figured I would have to read it again… Then ‘The Dose’ arrived in my email with this! Thank you Athena! (It would be nice to have in printer-friendly format). Name: Candyce Underwood Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
Just confirming …. if we don’t bill Medicare, we will not be subject to these requirements in 2017??? Name: Nancy Email: test@test.com reply.
August 15, 2016.
Hi Nancy,
Yes, that is correct. MIPS (and MACRA) is for Medicare. The private insurers may move this way eventually, but there are no requirements right now. Liz Name: Liz Kellogg Email: test@test.com reply.
August 11, 2016.
Great information but need it to be printable.
Thank you. Name: Lisa M. Email: test@test.com reply.
September 21, 2016.
Go to the following link for a printable copy on 8.5″ by 14″ paper.
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B4KAgEgIHtS-YnZpU1VBOHYtN1E?usp=sharing Name: Carol Bell Email: test@test.com reply.
August 15, 2016.
And this is going to improve medical care??? It most certainly push Drs out of Medicare!!
Wm Lee, MD Name: Wm Lee, MD Email: test@test.com reply.
September 22, 2016.
I see everyone is mentioning Medicare, is this affecting Medicaid as well? Name: Suheil Email: test@test.com reply.
September 22, 2016.
Will this be affecting Medicaid as well? Name: Suheil Email: test@test.com reply.
October 04, 2016.
Any way I could order this brochure, or get a pdf for reprints? Name: bob gongaware Email: test@test.com reply.
October 05, 2016.
Hi Bob,
Managing editor of athenaInsight here. I will follow-up with you via email.
Thanks,
James Name: James Furbush Email: test@test.com reply.
November 03, 2016.
I would love a printed or printable version of the Go ahead. MACRA my day brochure as well. Name: Darlene Poucher Email: test@test.com reply.
October 15, 2016.
Well illustrated overview, outlining how all this works.
Clear and concise…a great primer. Name: Chris Burk Email: test@test.com reply.
October 18, 2016.
Great summary content for MACRA. I too would love to get a pdf of the file, since the current format it is not printer friendly. Name: Melody Tobias Email: test@test.com reply.
February 01, 2017.
What a wonderful resource! Any plans to update this with the information from the final rule (example - pick your pace, volume thresholds for eligibility, etc.)? Name: Carol Saavedra Email: carolsaav@hotmail.com reply.
March 29, 2017.
Hi Carol, this infographic is now updated! Thanks so much for your comment. Liz Name: Liz Kellogg Email: ekellogg@athenahealth.com reply.
April 13, 2017.
Snappy little summary. 5 stars. Name: Steve A Christoff Email: steve.christoff@nexcoregroup.com reply.
June 29, 2017.
A curious game
The only way to win is not to play Name: Tom Davis MD FAAFP Email: tom@tomdavisconsulting.com reply Add new comment.
Comment *.
Name *.
Email *.
Website.
Leave this field blank.
Infographic: Key takeaways from the Quality Payment Program's 2018 proposed rule.
athenaInsight.
Follow Us.
Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight..
© Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved..
