https://www.athenahealth.com/knowledge-hub/clinical-integration/what-is-clinical-integration
 Request a live demo Request a Live Demo Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . close Request demo Request demo Services athenahealth Learn More About Our Products and Services Explore Our Services For Medical Groups and Practices Electronic Health Records Medical Billing Patient Engagement Order Transmission Secure Text Messaging Epocrates For Hospitals and Health Systems Electronic Health Records Revenue Cycle Management Care Coordination Population Health Epocrates Solutions Industry Solutions Integrated health care solutions for medical groups and practices. Find your industry Medical Groups & Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice FQHC Urgent Care Centers Health Systems Community Hospitals Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Health Plans Resources The power of our network We tap into our network data to improve provider performance, track public health trends, and more. Explore our data Insights & Resources Industry Knowledge Hubs Revenue Calculator Performance Benchmark Tool Valued-Based Care Value-Based Reimbursement MACRA Meaningful Use MIPS Thought Leadership CloudView Blog athenaInsight About About athenahealth At athenahealth, we put people first. From our employees to the clients we serve, people drive everything we do. Learn more about us Our Company Events Awards Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Our Partners Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Your goal is to improve the way health care works. So is ours. Let's get there together. top Schedule a 1:1 Meeting Contact Us 800.981.5084 Client Login Search form Search search Select Page Type default about event home industry practice story custom Explore all knowledge hubs Clinical integration knowledge hub Learn about the importance of implementing a successful clinical integration strategy, along with some obstacles to avoid along the way. View 3-Min Demo Overview - Overview Overview Model Quality of Care Our Approach Cloud Enabled Why is it Important Integrated Cost Technology Obstacles Alignment Successful Clinical Integration Interoperability Care Continum Point of Care Alignment Strategies Myths and Resources Care Community What is clinical integration? Overview Clinical integration has many definitions, including those driven by legal guidelines. The American Medical Association (AMA) describes clinical integration as “the means to facilitate the coordination of patient care across conditions, providers, settings, and time in order to achieve care that is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable, and patient-focused.” 1 The Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2011 includes provisions to promote clinical integration. That means hospitals and health care organizations are expected to participate in efforts to improve clinical integration—or the coordination of care across settings—and to expand coverage, boost the effectiveness and efficiency of care, promote innovation, and control costs. Why is clinical integration important? Because many health care providers and organizations practice "in silos," meaning that they lack meaningful connections and information exchange with other health care entities: Many office-based physicians practice alone, in small groups or in single-specialty groups. They may not have access to peer benchmarking and best practices, or tools that can enhance communication across settings and enable clinical integration (such as an electronic health records [EHRs]). Many hospitals cannot ensure true clinical integration because they have limited tools for positively influencing the behavior and decisions of the staff and partners involved in patient care. Patients, especially those with chronic conditions, receive care in hospitals, ambulatory settings, clinics and at home. These facilities may not have mechanisms in place to track patient care across different health care settings. Without coordination across multiple settings, patients are more likely to receive duplicative diagnostic tests, have adverse prescription drug interactions and get conflicting care plans. As mentioned above, clinical integration tends to have many definitions, and is not a firm set of principles or practices. It does not require a “closed” system of information, where one hospital or health care organization monitors and influences patient care within that system. Clinical integration is a continuous process of alignment across the care continuum that supports the triple aim of health care: Improving quality of care Reducing or controlling the cost of care Improving access to care and the overall patient experience In reality, clinical integration spans a range of settings and efforts, from multi-setting care coordination initiatives focused on a single condition, to networks of caregivers accessing and exchanging a variety of clinical and financial information to deliver quality care . Legal Considerations There may not be a firm definition for clinical integration among caregivers and health care leaders, but it has been officially defined by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the U.S. Department of Justice. The need stems from providers and organizations often using joint ventures, with contractual agreements, to help achieve clinical integration, leaving them open to scrutiny for possible anti-competitive practices under antitrust law. While any group should obtain legal advice during the process of integration, the FTC has indicated that clinical integration is acceptable as long as a group comes together with the goal of improving care—and not simply to bargain for better rates. 2 1 American Hospital Association. Clinical Integration – The Key to Real Reform. Trendwatch. (February 2010.) Available at: http://www.aha.org/research/reports/tw/10feb-clinicinteg.pdf . 2 Gosfield, A.G. and Reinertsen, J.L. Achieving Clinical Integration with Highly Engaged Physicians. (2010.) Available at: http://www.ihi.org/resources/Pages/Publications/AchievingClinicalIntegrationHighlyEngagedPhysicians.aspx Next: Model Online Demo Cloud-based Electronic Health Records See why our cloud-based EHR was named #1 by KLAS for usability. Watch Demo Whitepaper Clinical Integration: 7 Myths and a Blueprint for Success See the best ways to thrive in today's changing health care landscape. Read More From our CloudView Blog Pushing the Boundaries of Interoperability Lewes, Del., is a busy coastal city whose population consists of year-round residents, inclusive of a thriving retiree c... Read full post Schedule an inside look Thanks for your interest in athenahealth. We're excited to learn more about your practice. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable We will never share your email without your permission. View our Privacy Policy or Terms Conditions . Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . Request a live demo or call 800.981.5084 Products & Services EHR Practice Management Revenue Cycle Management Patient Engagement Population Health Services Order Transmission Patient Access & Care Coordination epocrates® Industry Solutions Medical Groups and Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice Urgent Care Centers FQHC Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Community Hospitals Interoperability Results & Insights athenaInsight Results From Our Network Payer Rankings and Analysis Calculate Potential Revenue Benchmark Against Peers Gain Reimbursement Insight Performance Benchmark Tool Government Initiatives: Meaningful Use PQRS Thought Leadership: CloudView Blog athenaInsight Results Insights(Column II) Industry Knowledge Hubs: Reimagined EHR Accountable Care Organization Clinical Integration EHR Advantages Interoperability ICD - 10 Meaningful Use Patient Engagement Value-Based Reimbursement Population Health Staying Independent Community Hospitals MACRA See all About athenahealth Our Company Events Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Visit us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin Privacy Policy Terms of use Disclaimers Contact us © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved 