https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/doctor-will-see-you-sometime
 Skip to main content Search form Search athenaInsight Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe The doctor will see you ... sometime By Chris Hayhurst | December 11, 2017 When new patients request an appointment, how long must they wait to be seen? The answer, according to new data from athenahealth, varies by their doctor's specialty — sometimes significantly so. [ Download a PDF of this article ] Looking at data from 4.2 million first appointments scheduled in 2016 with 13,000 providers, athenahealth researchers found that new patients — those who had not visited the practice in at least three years — wait an average of 2.7 weeks after calling for their first appointment. Across providers — including primary care physicians, orthopedists, pediatricians, cardiologists, and ob/gyns — 10 percent of new patients were seen the same day, 60 percent were scheduled within two weeks, and 20 percent waited more than four weeks for their first appointment. Of that group of providers, orthopedic patients were seen the fastest, the data show, with an average appointment lead time of 13 days. At the other end of the spectrum, ob/gyn patients waited almost 24 days, on average — two days longer than those scheduling primary care visits and about a week longer than pediatric patients. Research shows that wait times for first appointments are likely to be longer for in-demand specialties, including otolaryngology, urology, nephrology, pulmonary, gastroenterology, neurology, and rheumatology. Among that group, which logged 626,000 new-patient appointments in 2016 across 1,044 providers on the athena network, patients seeking an appointment with a rheumatologist had to wait the longest: 44 days to first appointment. Neurology patients waited 32 days and gastroenterology patients 26 days. Why does wait time matter? Appointment availability drives patient retention, says Josh Gray, athenahealth's vice president of research. “Our research shows new patients who wait more than a month for their first appointment are twice as likely to cancel – and never return – as patients scheduled within a week," he says. Chris Hayhurst is a writer based in Northampton, Massachusetts. Getting no-shows to show up Network data reveals the winning tactics Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight. Dig deeper: Financial Performance Physician and Staff Engagement Read This Next Ah, spring: The season of patient payments Why patient obligations are highest this time of year — and what to do about it Data Insight Patient debt varies by specialty and location Patient payments — and patient debt — fall disproportionately on certain specialties. To retain new patients, give them an appointment stat Data show the longer patients wait for a first visit, the more likely they are to cancel Expand Comments Add a comment Add a comment Required fields are marked * Your email address will not be published. Add new comment Comment * Name * Email * Website Leave this field blank The doctor will see you ... sometime athenaInsight Follow Us Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight. © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 