https://www.athenahealth.com/about/strategic-alliances
 Request a live demo Request a Live Demo Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . close Request demo Request demo Services athenahealth Learn More About Our Products and Services Explore Our Services For Medical Groups and Practices Electronic Health Records Medical Billing Patient Engagement Order Transmission Secure Text Messaging Epocrates For Hospitals and Health Systems Electronic Health Records Revenue Cycle Management Care Coordination Population Health Epocrates Solutions Industry Solutions Integrated health care solutions for medical groups and practices. Find your industry Medical Groups & Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice FQHC Urgent Care Centers Health Systems Community Hospitals Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Health Plans Resources The power of our network We tap into our network data to improve provider performance, track public health trends, and more. Explore our data Insights & Resources Industry Knowledge Hubs Revenue Calculator Performance Benchmark Tool Valued-Based Care Value-Based Reimbursement MACRA Meaningful Use MIPS Thought Leadership CloudView Blog athenaInsight About About athenahealth At athenahealth, we put people first. From our employees to the clients we serve, people drive everything we do. Learn more about us Our Company Events Awards Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Our Partners Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Your goal is to improve the way health care works. So is ours. Let's get there together. top Schedule a 1:1 Meeting Contact Us 800.981.5084 Client Login Search form Search search Select Page Type default about event home industry practice story custom Strategic Alliances Unlike conventional software vendors, athenahealth combines performance insights from our 106,000-provider network with continually updated payer knowledge and administrative work to help our clients get paid more, faster; focus on patients; and thrive through change. We believe our innovative approach provides a better way to help medical groups realize more revenue and get paid faster – all while encountering less hassle. To help extend our reach and ability to help physician practices, we look to our extensive network of partners, listed below. We invite you to explore a partnership with athenahealth as well. Affiliate Partners (Hospitals/IPAs) Health First Network Health First Network, Inc. is an integrated and comprehensive network of 650+ physicians dedicated to improving the health care experience and quality of life of people in Northwest Florida. Health First Network, Inc. connects physicians, patients, health plans, businesses, and the greater community, thereby, weaving a web of good health. This web is woven and reinforced through a commitment to local medical management, education, wellness, innovation, a team approach, and the delivery of quality, accessible, and affordable health care. For more information, visit www.hfni.com . Huron Valley Physicians Association Huron Valley Physicians Association (HVPA) has organized hospital-owned and privately-owned practices into a single organization. Primary and specialty care physicians are represented on various councils and committees for business and quality improvement initiatives. As an IPA, HVPA has the ability to negotiate network-based contracts and performance incentive programs. HVPA is viewed by others as progressive healthcare leaders and a high-quality performing physician organization. HVPA believes that through continued support, collective strength and resources we can maintain the long-term viability of independent physicians. Scripps Mercy Physician Partners Scripps Mercy Physician Partners is a San Diego-based, Scripps Affiliated IPA with over 650 independent private practice physician members. Physician Partners members are located throughout San Diego County and represent both primary care and specialist practices. Along with the ability to participate in excellent fee-for-service contracts, Physician Partners members have access to a wide array of values & benefits designed to support the viability and overall growth of private medical practices. In addition, Physician Partners has developed strategic business partnerships, with companies like athenahealth, that offer physician practices opportunities to decrease overhead costs and access new revenue-producing services. Distributors Henry Schein Medical Henry Schein, Inc. is the world's largest provider of health care products and services to office-based dental, animal health and medical practitioners. A Fortune 500 ® Company and a member of the NASDAQ 100 ® Index, Henry Schein serves more than 800,000 customers. Henry Schein Medical, the Company’s Medical Division is dedicated to providing customers with a superior experience through expert advice, strategic resources, and integrated solutions that enable the best quality patient care and enhance efficiency and productivity. The Company offers a comprehensive selection of products and value-added business and technology solutions. For more information, visit the Henry Schein Medical website at www.henryschein.com/medical . McKesson Medical-Surgical McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 14th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to making the business of healthcare run better. We partner with payers, hospitals, physician offices, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and others across the spectrum of care to build healthier organizations that deliver better care to patients in every setting. McKesson Medical-Surgical helps its customers improve their financial, operational, and clinical performance with solutions that include pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management, healthcare information technology, and business and clinical services. For more information, visit www.mckesson.com . Group Purchasing Organizations PedsPal Cook Children’s physician purchasing group was established in 1997 and expanded to become PedsPal in 2004. The group already enjoyed fantastic discounts on the items purchased most, but with foresight, they realized the way to maintain the greatest savings and lowest pricing was to open membership to like-minded physicians. PedsPal knew that physicians across the country were facing suppressed reimbursement and increasing costs on a daily basis. Most would be eager to find a means to succeed in this environment, and PedsPal could help make that happen. On a voluntary basis, PedsPal could teach them how to grow their success by channeling purchases through common supply resources, joining with their colleagues from pediatric, family practice and other medical specialties all across the nation. As a member of PedsPal you receive discounts on athenahealth’s certified electronic health record service, and athenahealth’s revenue cycle management program. Additionally, there are huge discounts on vaccines, medical supplies, books, office supplies, business machines, and furniture. Other program discounts are continuing to expand to meet the increasing needs of our medical professional partners. To learn more call 682-885-7257. Health Care Consultants and Accountants ABW Medical ABW Medical is the leading provider of athena co-sourcing support in the U.S., and works with over 1,500 providers in 35 states. We are focused on increasing collections and reducing stress for staff, providers and owners of medical practices using athenahealth solutions. ABW’s athena experts handle all aspects of billing (such as authorizations, working hold buckets, enrollment tasks, unpostables, etc.) and leverage technology and business processes to economically deliver our services. The results are More Revenue, More Time and More Peace of Mind for everyone involved. For additional information, contact us at 415-448-7541 or info@abwmedical.com . Agilence Agilence is the nation's premier performance acceleration company serving the domestic U.S. and global health care industry. Through its branded service lines Propel, Periscope, Virtuoso and Dossier, Agilence provides new ventures and established health care organizations with advanced sales distribution, human capital and product development tools to accelerate performance and drive exceptional results. For more information about Agilence, please call 866.805.0376. DoctorsManagement DoctorsManagement, since 1956, has assisted practices in all 50 states. Our consulting division evaluates practices and makes recommendations, and our management division implements those recommendations. Together, we move your practice to the next level of profitability and efficiency. Remember, all our work is guaranteed. eHealth LBMC eHealth Solutions provides strategic technology solutions for healthcare organizations. LBMC eHealth provides turnkey IT outsourcing for physician practices using the LBMC Hosting facilities. LBMC eHealth is a strategic reseller of the athenahealth practice management, EMR, and billing support solutions. LBMC eHealth is an affiliate company of LBMC, the largest private financial services firm in Tennessee and one of the largest in the Southeast. EMR Consulting Solutions Through its cloud-based Risk Analysis services, EMR Consulting Solutions provides Covered Entities and Business Associates the means to determine their organizations’ vulnerabilities and start the process of securing their IT systems from Cyber Theft. Affiliated with experts in the field of HIPAA Privacy and Security, EMR Consulting Solutions provides an up-to-date, comprehensive solution to produce the required documentation satisfying governmental mandates. Because of our cloud-based platform, we can provide our services to clients located anywhere in the U.S. To learn more, contact us at 408-335-0392. FGMK, Inc. FGMK, LLC is a progressive full-service Chicagoland certified public accounting and consulting firm dedicated to helping our clients grow their business. We accomplish this by taking a holistic approach that enables us to provide superior service throughout the organization. We have a high concentration of clients in the health care industry and have three partners who have earned the designation Certified Healthcare Business Consultants . Halley Consulting Group The Halley Consulting Group is a physician practice management and consulting firm specializing in the strategic development and performance turnaround of both hospital-owned medical practice networks and large independent medical offices. Halley Consulting works with clients nationwide, including health systems and individual hospitals that own medical practice networks. They provide services through traditional consulting arrangements and interim management contracts. The firm has served physician groups as small as 10 providers and health systems with up to 800 providers of varying specialties all across the United States. In 2013, Halley Consulting Group became an employee-owned corporation (ESOP). The firm is headquartered in a suburb of Columbus, Ohio. Health Care Content Partners First Databank First Databank (FDB) provides drug knowledge that helps healthcare professionals make precise medication-related decisions. With thousands of customers worldwide, FDB enables our information system developer partners to deliver a wide range of valuable, useful, and differentiated solutions. As the company that virtually launched the medication decision support category, we offer more than three decades of experience in transforming drug knowledge into actionable, targeted, and effective solutions that improve patient safety and healthcare outcomes. For a complete look at our solutions and services please visit www.fdbhealth.com . Health Language Health Language ® , part of Wolters Kluwer Health, provides healthcare terminology management solutions and professional services that normalize data into standardized code sets such as ICD-10, SNOMED CT ® and LOINC ® . By establishing a data infrastructure in which disparate information is fully integrated, the advanced Language Engine and supporting tools enable healthcare providers and payers to simplify the management and analysis of critical patient, financial and operational information. This, backed by a team of HIM experts that support the integration process, helps hospitals, health systems and other healthcare organizations to overcome industry challenges such as Meaningful Use, ICD-10 and health information exchange. MedAssets MedAssets is dedicated to protecting the healthcare system by simplifying information and improving communication through the integration of products, knowledge and technology. With online, one-stop coding, compliance, and revenue cycle solutions, MedAssets gives healthcare organizations the tools and information they need to achieve and maintain fiscal health. Health Care Information Technology Vendors Dell Inc. For more than 26 years, Dell has empowered customers and people everywhere to use technology to realize their dreams. Customers trust us to deliver technology solutions that help them do and achieve more. Dell has partnered with athenahealth to provide physician practices and hospitals with access to discounted pricing on Dell products. Check out the most up to date products and pricing available exclusively to athenahealth clients. The Dell Logo is a trademark of Dell Inc. Societies, Associations and Physician Organizations Arkansas Medical Society The Arkansas Medical Society (AMS) is the nonprofit organization representing organized medicine in the state of Arkansas. AMS is a constituent of the American Medical Association and is a leader in developing and promoting legislation beneficial to the health care community. AMS membership consists of more than 4,300 doctors in all fields of medicine. Colorado Medical Society The Colorado Medical Society is the largest organization of physicians in the state of Colorado. This membership organization, comprised of physicians, residents, and medical students, was founded in 1871 to promote the art and science of medicine and to improve the public health. Connecticut State Medical Society Founded in 1792 by physician-patriots of the American revolution, the Connecticut State Medical Society has pioneered physician licensure (1793), medical education (1812), institutional psychiatric care (1822), general hospital care (1826), a state death registry (1841), the founding of the AMA (1847), a state health department (1878), a medical practice act (1893), the first population-based cancer registry (1935), patient medical insurance (1947), CME accreditation (1973), physician-owned professional liability insurance (1984), a statewide IPA (1986), a successful countersuit (1988), and landmark class action lawsuits against seven HMO’s (2001). Now in its third century of achievement, CSMS continues to represent its 7,000 members in their own state and national legislative priorities, in their practice management marketplace, and in their own professional and personal needs. Our CSMS physicians will always vigorously exercise rightful leadership in these areas of their own expertise and training, to safeguard their patients and their profession alike. Illinois State Medical Society The Illinois State Medical Society is a professional organization that represents and unifies its physician members as they practice the science and art of medicine representing over 12,000 physicians practicing in all medical specialties statewide. The Society represents the interests of member physicians, advocates for patients and promotes the doctor/patient relationship, the ethical practice of medicine, and the betterment of the public health. Indiana State Medical Association Representing approximately 8,400 of the state’s physicians, the ISMA has worked for 158 years to promote sound health care policy in the public, private and governmental sectors and to support continuing medical education for the state’s doctors. Iowa Medical Society The Iowa Medical Society (IMS) is the professional association for Iowa MDs and DOs. Established in 1850, the core purpose of the IMS is to assure the highest quality of health care in Iowa through its role as physician and patient advocate. Its members include over 4,600 physicians in Iowa. Maine Medical Association The Maine Medical Association is a voluntary association of Maine physicians serving the profession and the public. Its mission is to support Maine physicians, advance the quality of medicine in Maine, and promote the health of all Maine citizens. The Association is headquartered in Manchester, Maine and has over 3,000 members who are physicians and medical students. The Massachusetts Medical Society The Massachusetts Medical Society, with over 18,000 physician and student members, is dedicated to educating and advocating for the physicians and patients of Massachusetts. Founded in 1781, the MMS is the oldest continuously operating medical society in the country. The Society owns and publishes The New England Journal of Medicine , the Journal Watch family of professional newsletters, AIDS Clinical Care , and produces HealthNews , a consumer health publication. The Medical Society of the District of Columbia The Medical Society of the District of Columbia is the largest organization of physicians practicing in the District of Columbia, with over 2,800 physician members. This membership organization, founded in 1817, dedicates its efforts to the well- being of physicians in metropolitan Washington and their patients. Medical Society of New Jersey Founded in 1766, the Medical Society of New Jersey (MSNJ) is the oldest professional society in the United States. MSNJ promotes the betterment of the public health and the science and the art of medicine, to enlighten public opinion in regard to the problems of medicine, and to safeguard the rights of the practitioners of medicine. The organization and its members are dedicated to a healthy New Jersey, working to ensure the sanctity of the physician-patient relationship. In representing all medical disciplines, MSNJ advocates for the rights of patients and physicians alike, for the delivery of the highest quality medical care. For more information visit www.msnj.org . The Medical Society of the State of New York The Medical Society of the State of New York (MSSNY) is an organization of approximately 30,000 licensed physicians, medical residents, and medical students in New York State. Members participate in both the state society and in their local county medical societies. MSSNY serves as a resource for its members and assists them in addressing the many issues and needs they face in providing quality healthcare to their patients. MSSNY is a non-profit organization committed to representing the medical profession as a whole and advocating health-related rights, responsibilities and issues. MSSNY endeavors to promote and maintain high standards in medical education and in the practice of medicine, in an effort to ensure that quality medical care is available to all people in the most economical manner. MSSNY further seeks to educate the public regarding important healthcare issues, including identification and discussion of their implications for patients and physicians in the current changing medical practice environment. North Carolina Medical Society The North Carolina Medical Society is the largest and oldest professional member organization in North Carolina, representing approximately 11,500 physicians and physician assistants who practice in the state. Founded in 1849, the Medical Society seeks to promote access to quality health care for all citizens in North Carolina and champions initiatives that seek to improve quality of care and promote patient safety. The Ohio State Medical Association The Ohio State Medical Association serves as an advocate for its members by responding to the challenges of the changing health care environment with representation, information, education and programs through the combined efforts of dedicated volunteers and association personnel. Oregon Medical Association The Oregon Medical Association (OMA), representing 7,400 physicians in the state of Oregon, has been serving and supporting physicians in their efforts to improve the health of Oregonians since 1874. Professional Association of Health Care Office Management The Professional Association of Health Care Office Management (PAHCOM) is a national organization dedicated to providing a strong professional communications network for health care office managers. PAHCOM strives to increase the productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness of its members through networking, education, research and certification. For more information call 800.451.9311. Washington State Medical Association The WSMA represents over 9,000 physicians and physician-assistants throughout Washington State. Our mission: to deliver strong advocacy that is physician driven and patient focused, working to help Washington's physicians deliver complete care that patients can trust. Partner Request Form Thank you for your interest in athenahealth. Please complete the form below, click submit, and an athenahealth channel manager will be in contact with you. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Job Title * Email * Organization Name * Website * Address * Address Line 2 City * Zip Code * # of Employees * Business Phone # * Primary Business Focus * Annual Sales * Select your revenue range... $0 - $10 Million $10.1 - $15 Million $15.1 - $100 Million $100.1 - $500 Million $500.1 - $1 Billion $1 Billion + Do Not Know Primary Territory/Metropolitan Area * What health care consulting services do you provide? * Prev Next Submit Thanks! Thank you for your interest in athenahealth. An athenahealth channel manager will contact you soon. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . Products & Services EHR Practice Management Revenue Cycle Management Patient Engagement Population Health Services Order Transmission Patient Access & Care Coordination epocrates® Industry Solutions Medical Groups and Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice Urgent Care Centers FQHC Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Community Hospitals Interoperability Results & Insights athenaInsight Results From Our Network Payer Rankings and Analysis Calculate Potential Revenue Benchmark Against Peers Gain Reimbursement Insight Performance Benchmark Tool Government Initiatives: Meaningful Use PQRS Thought Leadership: CloudView Blog athenaInsight Results Insights(Column II) Industry Knowledge Hubs: Reimagined EHR Accountable Care Organization Clinical Integration EHR Advantages Interoperability ICD - 10 Meaningful Use Patient Engagement Value-Based Reimbursement Population Health Staying Independent Community Hospitals MACRA See all About athenahealth Our Company Events Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Visit us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin Privacy Policy Terms of use Disclaimers Contact us © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved 