https://www.athenahealth.com/industry-solutions/macra
 Request a live demo Request a Live Demo Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . close Request demo Request demo Services athenahealth Learn More About Our Products and Services Explore Our Services For Medical Groups and Practices Electronic Health Records Medical Billing Patient Engagement Order Transmission Secure Text Messaging Epocrates For Hospitals and Health Systems Electronic Health Records Revenue Cycle Management Care Coordination Population Health Epocrates Solutions Industry Solutions Integrated health care solutions for medical groups and practices. Find your industry Medical Groups & Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice FQHC Urgent Care Centers Health Systems Community Hospitals Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Health Plans Resources The power of our network We tap into our network data to improve provider performance, track public health trends, and more. Explore our data Insights & Resources Industry Knowledge Hubs Revenue Calculator Performance Benchmark Tool Valued-Based Care Value-Based Reimbursement MACRA Meaningful Use MIPS Thought Leadership CloudView Blog athenaInsight About About athenahealth At athenahealth, we put people first. From our employees to the clients we serve, people drive everything we do. Learn more about us Our Company Events Awards Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Our Partners Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Your goal is to improve the way health care works. So is ours. Let's get there together. top Schedule a 1:1 Meeting Contact Us 800.981.5084 Client Login Search form Search search Select Page Type default about event home industry practice story custom athenahealth Advantage: MIPS Did you attest to Meaningful Use? Were you successful with PQRS? Did you know that Meaningful Use and PQRS are now rolled up into MIPS? With the recent ruling in place, are you prepared for MIPS? The majority of Eligible Clinicians1 must participate in the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) in 2017. There are many complexities to the program and reporting, but athenahealth delivers the industry’s only network-enabled service that helps keep practices on top of industry change. Talk to an expert Proven success with quality programs At athena, we’ve helped thousands of our clients attest to Meaningful Use and succeed in PQRS. Our goal is to lessen the administrative burden of these complex quality programs to let providers focus on the patient. 97% 2017 Meaningful Use Attestation Rate 106,000 providers on our network 96% of physician groups avoided VM 2017 penalties Up to 4% of your payment is at risk with MIPS If you're an Eligible Clinician 1 your performance in MIPS dictates a positive or negative payment adjustment to your Medicare Part B payment. Eligible Clinicians who don’t report any data in 2017 will receive a 4% negative payment adjustment. A two-year lag between performance year and payment year means that 2017 performance impacts 2019 payments, and 2018 performance will impact 2020 payments. We are committed to our clients' success Our network is built to future-proof your practice against industry changes, helping you deliver quality care and minimize risk by taking on the burden of work required—no matter what comes your way. MIPS and MACRA, made simple Confused by the complexities of MIPS and MACRA? Don't have time to read the 1,000+ pages of requirements? athenahealth has illustrated the finer points of MACRA. The MACRA Rule The government is committed to steering the industry toward value-based reimbursement. Learn More about MACRA. View our top 5 takeaways 10 Things to Know About MACRA Medical practices need to prepare for this mandate or incur financial penalties. View infographic Navigating MIPS: Why MIPS Matters and How to Report MIPS involves over 378 measures and activities. View this infographic for a breakdown of MIPS. Learn more Understanding ACI: What is Advancing Care Information? Confused by ACI? It's 25% of your MIPS score. View this infographic to learn more about ACI. View infographic How do we do it? athenahealth helps you stay focused on patient care with a proven combination of: The largest network in healthcare A nationwide network of 106,000 providers that connects the continuum of care, bringing provider groups large and small the scale and agility they need to stay independent. Collective insight and intelligence The right information is surfaced at the right time so you maximize both fee-for-service and value-based payments through our continuously updated Billing Rules Engine and Quality Management Engine. Work done at scale We serve as an extension of your internal operations, wicking away low-value work and driving performance. We track claims, manage your providers’ paperwork, performance coach and more. Don't take on MIPS alone. Free up your time for more valuable work – leave payment reform problems to us. Talk to our Quality Payment Program specialists about what athenahealth can do for your practice. First Name * Last Name * Email * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * # of physicians in your organization * Questions/Comments (optional) View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, or visit the MACRA Knowledge Hub and MIPS Guarantee page to learn more. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . 1 athenaNet data as of April 1, 2017 Products & Services EHR Practice Management Revenue Cycle Management Patient Engagement Population Health Services Order Transmission Patient Access & Care Coordination epocrates® Industry Solutions Medical Groups and Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice Urgent Care Centers FQHC Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Community Hospitals Interoperability Results & Insights athenaInsight Results From Our Network Payer Rankings and Analysis Calculate Potential Revenue Benchmark Against Peers Gain Reimbursement Insight Performance Benchmark Tool Government Initiatives: Meaningful Use PQRS Thought Leadership: CloudView Blog athenaInsight Results Insights(Column II) Industry Knowledge Hubs: Reimagined EHR Accountable Care Organization Clinical Integration EHR Advantages Interoperability ICD - 10 Meaningful Use Patient Engagement Value-Based Reimbursement Population Health Staying Independent Community Hospitals MACRA See all About athenahealth Our Company Events Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Visit us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin Privacy Policy Terms of use Disclaimers Contact us © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved 