https://www.athenahealth.com/network-data-insights/payerview
 Request a live demo Request a Live Demo Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . close Request demo Request demo Services athenahealth Learn More About Our Products and Services Explore Our Services For Medical Groups and Practices Electronic Health Records Medical Billing Patient Engagement Order Transmission Secure Text Messaging Epocrates For Hospitals and Health Systems Electronic Health Records Revenue Cycle Management Care Coordination Population Health Epocrates Solutions Industry Solutions Integrated health care solutions for medical groups and practices. Find your industry Medical Groups & Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice FQHC Urgent Care Centers Health Systems Community Hospitals Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Health Plans Resources The power of our network We tap into our network data to improve provider performance, track public health trends, and more. Explore our data Insights & Resources Industry Knowledge Hubs Revenue Calculator Performance Benchmark Tool Valued-Based Care Value-Based Reimbursement MACRA Meaningful Use MIPS Thought Leadership CloudView Blog athenaInsight About About athenahealth At athenahealth, we put people first. From our employees to the clients we serve, people drive everything we do. Learn more about us Our Company Events Awards Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Our Partners Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Your goal is to improve the way health care works. So is ours. Let's get there together. top Schedule a 1:1 Meeting Contact Us 800.981.5084 Client Login Search form Search search Select Page Type default about event home industry practice story custom Share PayerView 2016: Industry Trends How are industry trends affecting payers and providers? What you need to know PayerView 2016: Charting the Way Forward How can payers and providers succeed in the current health care environment? Why collaboration is key PayerView 2016: All Payers Ranked This year's PayerView report studied 214 payers across the country. See how they stack up. View all rankings Payerview 2016: Collaboration is key athenahealth® is proud to present the 2016 edition of PayerView, our annual review of the performance of the largest payers in our network. PayerView is more than just an industry report card. We offer this year’s insights with an accompanying infographic that identifies strategies to help providers and payers zero in on opportunities for collaboration in our changing health care world.  As the shift from Volume to Value accelerates and the implementation of health care reform continues, now is the time for payers, providers and stakeholders to work together to address new challenges. View the PayerView 2016 infographic. What the data shows This year's analysis reveals shifts among payers who have historically been top performers in PayerView. In addition, many more payers met the inclusion criteria for PayerView for the first time this year, 29% more than in 2015. National Commercial Payers: Powerful Administrative Performance The robust experience and processes of the biggest commercial payers may be what drives their strong performance on administrative metrics. These payers also continue to adapt by engaging in mergers, acquisitions and the vertical integration of technology capabilities. New platforms and technologies present opportunities for innovation, collaboration and communication among payers, providers and other stakeholders. Medicare Part B Payers: Leaders in First-Pass Claim Resolution Medicare Part B payers benefit from strong, standardized claims adjudication systems and clear payment rules , allowing intelligence to be built into athena’s network and resulting in the highest rate of claims successfully paid on the initial attempt. In the event a claim is denied, clear actionable remittance advice avoids costs associated with follow-up activities and lowers call volume for payers and providers. Looking ahead, Medicare has set an ambitious goal of linking 50 percent of payments to alternative payment models like Accountable Care Organizations by 2018 - so Medicare Part B payers’ robust infrastructure should continue to evolve to support providers. Medicaid: Some Success in the Face of Unique Challenges Medicaid payers, which include both state Medicaid programs and Medicaid Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), face unique challenges: administering a complex eligibility determination process, providing benefits to a member population undergoing consistent “churn,” and of course scaling up programs and services in states that opt for expansion under the Affordable Care Act.  Despite such challenges, Medicaid payers as a group perform well on the Eligibility Accuracy and Provider Collection Burden metrics, but have room for improvement on most others. Opportunities for collaboration in a changing health care marketplace How can payers, providers, and other stakeholders respond to the changes currently underway in the health care marketplace? For one, they can embrace new tools and transactions to expedite complex processes. Patient eligibility and obligation determination, both growing more complicated with the wholesale rise in cost-sharing and the growth of new network arrangements, are long overdue for simplification. For another, they can take a fresh look at automating elements of frequently tedious manual workflows to achieve efficiencies and free up time for care delivery. Processes such as prior authorization and credentialing could benefit from a collaborative approach. The health care landscape is ever-changing and increasingly complex. As we look towards the future, in order to become more effective and efficient, collaboration between payers, providers and other partners such as athenahealth will be crucial to staying ahead of ongoing changes across—and beyond—the continuum of care. See Top 10 Performers Methodology and Metrics PayerView ranks the largest payers in the athenahealth network on their performance on the financial, administrative, and transactional metrics shown below. For 2016, a payer’s overall ranking is determined as a weighted average of its ranks on the eight individual metrics, based on performance during calendar year 2015. 2016 PayerView metrics ** Payerview® Notice of Disclaimer and Methodology The rankings and data provided herein are based solely on actual claims activity captured in the athenaNet® system from a limited set of physicians and payers.  Rankings and data presented should not be relied upon or assumed to be representative of future experience, or of the experience of physician practices that do not participate in our services. View the full disclaimer and methodology . Learn more Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . Schedule an inside look Thanks for your interest in athenahealth. We're excited to learn more about your practice. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable We will never share your email without your permission. View our Privacy Policy or Terms Conditions . Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . Request a live demo or call 800.981.5084 Products & Services EHR Practice Management Revenue Cycle Management Patient Engagement Population Health Services Order Transmission Patient Access & Care Coordination epocrates® Industry Solutions Medical Groups and Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice Urgent Care Centers FQHC Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Community Hospitals Interoperability Results & Insights athenaInsight Results From Our Network Payer Rankings and Analysis Calculate Potential Revenue Benchmark Against Peers Gain Reimbursement Insight Performance Benchmark Tool Government Initiatives: Meaningful Use PQRS Thought Leadership: CloudView Blog athenaInsight Results Insights(Column II) Industry Knowledge Hubs: Reimagined EHR Accountable Care Organization Clinical Integration EHR Advantages Interoperability ICD - 10 Meaningful Use Patient Engagement Value-Based Reimbursement Population Health Staying Independent Community Hospitals MACRA See all About athenahealth Our Company Events Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Visit us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin Privacy Policy Terms of use Disclaimers Contact us © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved 