https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/tags/value-based-reimbursements
 Skip to main content Search form Search athenaInsight Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe Value-based Reimbursements What DC's various budgets mean for healthcare Budgets from Congress and the White House could give clinicians a bit of breathing room 'A shift away from physician-centric healthcare' Penn State College of Medicine​ dean Hillemeier​: "Educate doctors to be team players." The state of healthcare: Four reasons for optimism Most physicians don't feel optimistic about the future of healthcare. Here are five who do. 4 predictions for healthcare in 2018 Healthcare execs plan to staff up in 2018 to manage risk and interpret data strategically Top 10 athenaInsight stories of 2017 From physician burnout to population health, highlights of our 2017 healthcare coverage It's not an emergency. Call a paramedic! How community paramedics are taking on chronic and transitional care Episode 6: How to build an ACO Kevin Hoppe, COO at the Lahey Clinical Performance ACO, on putting pop health into practice Episode 5: The harsh truth about payment reform Healthcare exec Paul Levy is not optimistic about value-based care. To put it mildly. Episode 3: Where healthcare meets Moneyball Building a health network is like assembling a baseball team, utility players​ included Show More more athenaInsight Follow Us Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight. © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 