https://www.athenahealth.com/about/awards
 Request a live demo Request a Live Demo Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . close Request demo Request demo Services athenahealth Learn More About Our Products and Services Explore Our Services For Medical Groups and Practices Electronic Health Records Medical Billing Patient Engagement Order Transmission Secure Text Messaging Epocrates For Hospitals and Health Systems Electronic Health Records Revenue Cycle Management Care Coordination Population Health Epocrates Solutions Industry Solutions Integrated health care solutions for medical groups and practices. Find your industry Medical Groups & Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice FQHC Urgent Care Centers Health Systems Community Hospitals Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Health Plans Resources The power of our network We tap into our network data to improve provider performance, track public health trends, and more. Explore our data Insights & Resources Industry Knowledge Hubs Revenue Calculator Performance Benchmark Tool Valued-Based Care Value-Based Reimbursement MACRA Meaningful Use MIPS Thought Leadership CloudView Blog athenaInsight About About athenahealth At athenahealth, we put people first. From our employees to the clients we serve, people drive everything we do. Learn more about us Our Company Events Awards Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Our Partners Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Your goal is to improve the way health care works. So is ours. Let's get there together. top Schedule a 1:1 Meeting Contact Us 800.981.5084 Client Login Search form Search search Select Page Type default about event home industry practice story custom athenahealth Awards 2015 Best Place to Work For the fifth year, The Boston Business Journal honored athenahealth in creating a positive work environment that attracts and retains employees through a combination of employee satisfaction, working conditions and company culture. This year, athenahealth was ranked #1 in the extra large company category. Also recognized: 2010-2013, 2007 Boston Globe Top Places to Work 2016 For the sixth year in a row athenahealth was ranked a “Top Place to Work 2016” by The Boston Globe for companies with 1,000 or more employees in Boston. Update the also recognized dates from 2011-2015. Also recognized: 2011-2015 Deloitte 2015 Technology Fast 500 athenahealth was named to Deloitte's 2015 Technology Fast 500, which recognizes the fastest growing technology, media, telecommunications, life sciences, and clean technology companies in North America. Also recognized: 2012-2014 100 Best Places to Work in Healthcare athenahealth was named one of the 100 Best Places to Work in Healthcare by Modern Healthcare. The recognition program, now in its eighth year, honors workplaces throughout the healthcare industry that empower their employees to provide patients and customers with the best possible care, products and services. Becker's Hospital Review 150 Great Places to Work in Healthcare 2016 athenahealth was named a great place to work in healthcare for our "robust benefits, wellness initiatives, commitment to diversity and inclusion, professional development opportunities and work environments that promote employee satisfaction and work-life balance." Also recognized: 2014, 2015 Austin Business Journal Best Places to Work 2015 The Austin Business Journal recognized athenahealth as one of the "Best Places to Work for 2015" for its great perks and happy employees. 2014 Public Company of the Year athenahealth was honored as “Public Company of the Year” by the Mass Technology Leadership Council (MassTLC), the region’s leading technology association, at its annual Technology Leadership Awards. 2016 Best Place to Work in Maine The Best Places to Work in Maine program, sponsored by Central Maine Healthcare, recognized athenahealth as one of the companies that's established and consistently fostered outstanding workplace environments. Also recognized: 2009-2014 Healthcare Informatics 100 On Healthcare Informatics' 2015 list of the nation's largest healthcare IT companies, athenahealth ranks 22nd, by revenue. Also recognized: 2009-2014 2014 Top Workplace in Atlanta athenahealth was selected as one of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution Top 100 Workplaces for the Atlanta area based on employee feedback on organizational health and employee engagement. Also recognized: 2013 Boston Legal Department of the Year In 2014, athenahealth’s in-house legal team was recognized as a “Boston Legal Department of the Year” for demonstrating innovative strategies in corporate compliance. 2013 Boston Globe Globe 100 athenahealth was ranked number 55 on the Globe 100, a list that ranks the best-performing public companies in Massachusetts. Also recognized: 2010-2012 Top 10 Most Innovative Companies In 2013, athenahealth placed 8th on Fast Company 's Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in Healthcare list for improving access to medical records with their cloud-based services. 2013 National Top Workplace athenahealth was named one of America's Top Workplaces by WorkplaceDynamics, ranking #45 nationwide among 872 organizations with more than 1,000 employees. Team MA Economic Impact Award In 2013, athenahealth was named as a Gold Winner for the 10th annual Team Massachusetts Economic Impact Awards based on its outstanding contribution to the Massachusetts economy. MIT Technology Review's Top 50 Technology Review Magazine, published by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, named athenahealth one of the 50 most innovative companies in the world in 2012. Also recognized: 2010 Schedule an inside look Thanks for your interest in athenahealth. We're excited to learn more about your practice. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable We will never share your email without your permission. View our Privacy Policy or Terms Conditions . Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . Request a live demo or call 800.981.5084 Products & Services EHR Practice Management Revenue Cycle Management Patient Engagement Population Health Services Order Transmission Patient Access & Care Coordination epocrates® Industry Solutions Medical Groups and Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice Urgent Care Centers FQHC Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Community Hospitals Interoperability Results & Insights athenaInsight Results From Our Network Payer Rankings and Analysis Calculate Potential Revenue Benchmark Against Peers Gain Reimbursement Insight Performance Benchmark Tool Government Initiatives: Meaningful Use PQRS Thought Leadership: CloudView Blog athenaInsight Results Insights(Column II) Industry Knowledge Hubs: Reimagined EHR Accountable Care Organization Clinical Integration EHR Advantages Interoperability ICD - 10 Meaningful Use Patient Engagement Value-Based Reimbursement Population Health Staying Independent Community Hospitals MACRA See all About athenahealth Our Company Events Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Visit us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin Privacy Policy Terms of use Disclaimers Contact us © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved 