https://www.athenahealth.com/privacy-rights
 Request a live demo Request a Live Demo Please take a minute to tell us about yourself. * All fields required First Name * Last Name * Email * State * Select State... Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Organization Name * Phone (XXX) XXX-XXXX * # of physicians in your organization 1-6 7-20 21-150 151 or more Not applicable View our Privacy Policy or Terms and Conditions. Prev Next Submit Thanks! We'll be in touch soon! In the meantime, please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084, explore the site or check out a video. An error occurred Please feel free to give us a call at 800.981.5084 . close Request demo Request demo Services athenahealth Learn More About Our Products and Services Explore Our Services For Medical Groups and Practices Electronic Health Records Medical Billing Patient Engagement Order Transmission Secure Text Messaging Epocrates For Hospitals and Health Systems Electronic Health Records Revenue Cycle Management Care Coordination Population Health Epocrates Solutions Industry Solutions Integrated health care solutions for medical groups and practices. Find your industry Medical Groups & Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice FQHC Urgent Care Centers Health Systems Community Hospitals Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Health Plans Resources The power of our network We tap into our network data to improve provider performance, track public health trends, and more. Explore our data Insights & Resources Industry Knowledge Hubs Revenue Calculator Performance Benchmark Tool Valued-Based Care Value-Based Reimbursement MACRA Meaningful Use MIPS Thought Leadership CloudView Blog athenaInsight About About athenahealth At athenahealth, we put people first. From our employees to the clients we serve, people drive everything we do. Learn more about us Our Company Events Awards Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Our Partners Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Your goal is to improve the way health care works. So is ours. Let's get there together. top Schedule a 1:1 Meeting Contact Us 800.981.5084 Client Login Search form Search search Select Page Type default about event home industry practice story custom Privacy Policy PRIVACY POLICY Last Modified: February 6, 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SCOPE AND PURPOSE WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT? HOW DO WE USE YOUR INFORMATION? SHARING YOUR INFORMATION UPDATES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED TO KNOW? KEY TERMS CONTACT I. SCOPE AND PURPOSE: This privacy policy (“the Policy”) describes how athenahealth, Inc. (“we,” “us,” or “athena”), and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies, may collect, use, and share information about you that we obtain through www.athenahealth.com (“the Website”). This Policy does not apply to other athenahealth platforms (e.g., athenaCollector, athenaClinicals, athenaCommunicator, athenaCoordinator, etc.), to other athenahealth product offerings (e.g., athenaText), to the athenahealth Patient Portal, to other websites that we operate, to information that we obtain outside of the Website, or websites of third parties to which we provide links. We do not control and are not responsible for the privacy practices of, or the data available on, the websites of third parties, and we urge you to evaluate the soundness of these practices for yourself. RETURN TO TOP II. WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT? The following types of information may be collected on the Website: We may collect information you provide us if you access, sign up for or request certain services from us on our Website. If you are interested in learning more about athenahealth and the services and products we offer, we may ask for personal information, such as your name, practice name and size, email address, telephone number, and city/state. If you have an account with us, we may also collect your username or other information (e.g., Practice ID) you use to log into or access your account. We may collect your IP address, browser type and version, and other data about the equipment used to visit the Website, the patterns of searching and browsing that preceded access to the Website, and the patterns of searching and browsing on the Website. The Website does not respond to web browsers’ Do Not Track signals. RETURN TO TOP III. HOW DO WE USE YOUR INFORMATION? We use information collected through tracking technologies , such as cookies and web beacons, to improve the functionality of the Website. For example: We track the number of visitors using certain portions or features of the Website to make changes that may be necessary to improve the Website’s functionality; We track the popularity of features on the Website to guide the development of new ones; We identify the types of devices our visitors use so that we can improve and optimize our systems; and We assess the ways in which users become aware of or access the Website in order to gauge the quality and methods of our advertising. If you choose to provide athenahealth with Personally identifiable information , we will use that information for purposes explained at the time of collection; as described in this Policy and our Terms; and for our business purposes. For example: If you provide us with your email address, we may use it for our own marketing, promotional, and informational purposes, including solicitations, invitations, newsletters, awareness campaigns, and announcements, and may share it with partners and affiliates for their marketing purposes, but we will not share your email address with unaffiliated third parties. RETURN TO TOP IV. SHARING YOUR INFORMATION We engage certain service providers for purposes of tracking and associating internet search and browsing behavior with our advertisements and to provide functionality on the Website. We enable them to use tracking technologies , such as cookies and web beacons, on or in conjunction with the Website. These companies may use non-personally identifiable information about your visits to other websites, together with non-personally identifiable information about your purchases and interests from other online and offline sources, to provide ads about goods and services of interest to you. The use and collection of information by these service providers is governed by their respective privacy statements and thus is not covered by this Policy. In addition, we may share Website usage information with these service providers to manage and target ads and for market research purposes.  Finally, information obtained through these processes may be combined with personally identifiable information in order to analyze our marketing efforts. We will only share Personally Identifiable Information with third party vendors, consultants, agents, partners, and other service providers with whom we contract to help us provide or improve our services. Please note that athenahealth will only share your information in accordance with this Policy, except in the following situations: You have given us your consent to share or use information about you; We believe that we need to share information about you to provide a service that you have requested from us or from others; We are required by law to disclose information; or We believe that it is necessary to protect our rights or to avoid liability or violations of the law. RETURN TO TOP V. UPDATES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY We reserve the right to make periodic updates and revisions to the Policy. Any changes will be posted on this page. Please check this page to review whether any changes have been made to the Policy. RETURN TO TOP VI. WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED TO KNOW? This Website is not intended for minors under the age of eighteen, and athenahealth does not wish to obtain any information from or about them through this website. If you are under eighteen years old, do not use this Website. Our Website includes social media features, such as “sharing” functions on Facebook and Twitter. Your interactions with these features are governed by the privacy policies of the companies providing these features, and we do not control and are not responsible for the privacy practices of, or the data available on, the websites of third parties. RETURN TO TOP VII. KEY TERMS TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES : Tracking technologies include technologies such as “cookies” and “web beacons,” which are used to analyze trends, administer the Website, and help us provide you with a more personalized experience and improve our services. Cookies are small amounts of text files that are sent from a website to your computer’s browser when you visit the site. These cookies are then stored in files within your computer’s browser. Websites can access only the cookies that they have stored on your computer. For every future time you access a website, your browser sends the cookie back to the server, which notifies the website of the user’s previous activities on the website. Thus, cookies serve several useful purposes, like letting you navigate between pages more efficiently, saving your preferences, and enhancing your user experience with the website. Web beacons (also called transparent GIFs, web bugs, pixels, or action tags) are strings of code that deliver a tiny graphic image on a web page or in an email which is used to monitor the behavior of the user visiting the website or sending the email. Web beacons can recognize certain types of information on your computer such as cookies, the time and date a page is viewed, and a description of the page on which the web beacon is placed. In general, any file served as part of a web page can act as a web beacon. INTERNET PROTOCOL (IP) ADDRESS : A numerical label separated by periods that identifies every device (e.g., computer, printer) that participates in a network. IP addresses allow these devices to communicate with one another and transmit relevant information. PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION (PII) : For purposes of this Policy, PII includes: first and last name; physical mailing address including street name and city/town; email; and telephone number. RETURN TO TOP VIII. CONTACT If you have any questions about this Policy, please contact us at: athenahealth, Inc, Attn: Chief Compliance Officer, 311 Arsenal Street, Watertown, MA 02472. Products & Services EHR Practice Management Revenue Cycle Management Patient Engagement Population Health Services Order Transmission Patient Access & Care Coordination epocrates® Industry Solutions Medical Groups and Practices Medical Specialties Starting a Medical Practice Urgent Care Centers FQHC Accountable Care Organizations Academic Medical Centers Community Hospitals Interoperability Results & Insights athenaInsight Results From Our Network Payer Rankings and Analysis Calculate Potential Revenue Benchmark Against Peers Gain Reimbursement Insight Performance Benchmark Tool Government Initiatives: Meaningful Use PQRS Thought Leadership: CloudView Blog athenaInsight Results Insights(Column II) Industry Knowledge Hubs: Reimagined EHR Accountable Care Organization Clinical Integration EHR Advantages Interoperability ICD - 10 Meaningful Use Patient Engagement Value-Based Reimbursement Population Health Staying Independent Community Hospitals MACRA See all About athenahealth Our Company Events Careers Investors Newsroom Locations athenaGives Marketplace More Disruption Please Strategic Alliances Visit us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin Privacy Policy Terms of use Disclaimers Contact us © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved 