https://www.athenahealth.com/insight/types/video
 Skip to main content Search form Search athenaInsight Trends Population Health Innovation and Tech Care Delivery Models Policy and Regulations Driving Quality Interoperability Provider Engagement Physician Engagement Team-based Care Burnout The High Performing Physician Network Financial Success Financial Performance Value-based Reimbursement Clinical Networks Patient Payments Data Insights New Flu Dashboard Opioids Demographics Infographics Interactives More About Leadership 3 Minute Case Studies Opinion Videos Podcasts Ebooks Subscribe Videos Watch: How Lyme-savvy are patients with ticks? 'Lyme literacy' varies, but most people with tick bites plan to contact their PCPs Part three: The framework in practice Learn how a healthcare system can apply these concepts to its operations. Performance Tips: Pre-care planning for the patient visit How do top performers use staff to prepare for encounters? Watch here. Performance Tips: The effective encounter How do top performers make sure doctors and patients have the conversations they need? Watch here. Performance Tips: Reporting on quality How do top performers capture the right metrics? Watch here. Part two: The key to performance is capability Learn how a framework that yields success in other service industries can make the difference in healthcare Part one: How we developed the framework See how our data analysis identified top performers, found best practices, and led to a theory of success From 'Sea Monstah' fame to addiction recovery The story you don’t know about a Boston internet star Opinion Watch: A value-based alternative for recovery Column Health's model provides a third option for addiction treatment Performance Insight Show More more athenaInsight Follow Us Learn more To learn how network insight can help drive performance for your organization, visit athenahealth.com Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Stay in the know Sign up for weekly data and news from athenaInsight. © Copyright 2017 athenahealth, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 